And then we gotta prepare and
send our survey email.
Now, in this particular case, we
are going to segment our audience, right.
So that means we're gonna send different
emails to slightly different groups.
We're gonna send an email to
those we consider influences.
We're gonna send a version of the email to
those who didn't reply to our first email.
And then we're gonna send a version to
those who did reply to our first email,
right.
Does that makes sense?
Okay, so in terms of how you do that,
it's up to you.
You could just do it in Excel, just make
a note of who replied and who didn't.
Or you could use a tool I use ConvertKit,
which is a great tool for
managing email lists.
And actually longer term,
once you've actually got a proper
mailing list rather than this cold one.
Then that becomes particularly useful,
but we'll revisit that later.
So let's look at our emails very quickly,
so
make the subject line to write
to influences in this case.
Make the subject line clear and
reference your previous communication.
So I've put next step in the Charity's
report we discussed, right.
So makes it very obviously tied
to previous conversations.
You may remember I emailed you in regards
to a report we are creating on user
experience in the Charity sector.
I mentioned I was interested in your
feedback as to what she covered.
So I'm reminding them about
the previous conversation,
make it clear why you're contacting them.
Then introduce the survey so
I've prepared a survey that I
would love you to complete.
I will use it to inform the final report,
it should only take you
five minutes to complete.
Obviously in return I will send you a copy
of the final report when it's completed.
So you introduce the survey, make it
clear what you want them to do, and
what they will get in return.
All right, but
also emphasize it won't take them long.
Also feel free to share this with your
network if you think it's of value,
the more responses we get,
the more accurate the final results.
So encourage them because they're
influencers to share it with their broader
community.
And also explain why that's
worth their time in doing that
it's gonna lead to a better report.
If you have any feedback on the survey or
maybe you would like to
collaborate on it with me.
Because these are influences remember,
then drop me a reply and I'm happy
to set up a call, I'd love to chat.
So make it personal and
use the opportunity to directly engage,
cuz these are the kind
of people that actually.
If they turned around and said, this
sounds like a really good idea, you want,
let's get their name on it.
Because they've already got
an established name and stuff like that.
So that's how I deal with influencers,
in terms of 'No contact' emails,
so the people that
didn't reply previously.
It's pretty much mainly the same as the
other one but it's got some differences.
So I've written well, thanks to some great
feedback from others in the sector I've
now prepared a short survey.
That will inform the final report.
If you could spare five minutes
max to complete the survey,
I'll be more than happy to give you a free
copy of the final report in return.
So I've added a bit where I emphasize
how others have got involved.
Even though you didn't,
it's that old fear of missing out thing.
And then I end with if you have any
feedback on the survey, we'll be happy or
we'd be happy to be interviewed,
drop me a reply.
So instead of this whole
collaboration thing,
I've changed out to being
interviewed instead.
People like being interviewed,
because it makes them look like an expert.
And if you quote them in the report,
then that goes down very well.
For those people that had
previously contacted,
I've changed the subject a little bit,
your feedback helped our survey a lot.
And then we thank them for
their previous involvement,
then pretty much everything
else is the same.
So it's just a lot of kind of thank
you for your contributions etc.
So yeah and
that's the email you're sending out, or
you have to write LinkedIn message or
whatever else.
So it's all there word for word, obviously
you need to tailor it to make it sound
like you, obviously you need
to tailor it for your sector.
But hopefully that's a good starting
point you can get to from the slide deck
that'll save you a bit of work
rather than start from scratch.
There's nothing worse than that
flashing cursor on a blank page when
you're supposed to write
an important email.
So this idea I keep talking
about of offering a site audit
to encourage responses.
It's optional you don't have to do it, but
I have found it is quite worthwhile doing,
so it provides a number of benefits.
When you're auditing websites,
if you bother to go to these different
websites and audit them and look at them.
Then it also actually provides
really good quality content for
your report, cuz you can now go.
For example, on this site,
they do dot dot dot, or
their performance was better than average.
And you can reference things
that's going on in the industry,
it's a good way, bulking out your report.
So it gives you more
content in your report,
improves the quality of your report.
And also, the other great thing is people
love to know how they're ranking and
how they're doing.
Especially compared to their competitors.
So this kind of site audit potentially is
an interesting strategy for doing that.
Now I'll explain how to do
it in just a minute, and
encourages people to contact you as well.
Because they have to write back and
say yeah we'd love to be included in that.
So, this is the approach that I tend
to use, I use a scorecard approach.
So this is a scorecard for
[LAUGH] bizarrely an Egyptian university.
Cuz I did a whole load of work
with the Egyptian universities,
and so we started exam scoring
them against one another.
So I had different criteria accessibility,
relevance, usability, engagement, and
I gave them scores against
different criteria in each.
So basically, you identify a small number
of criteria related to your report,
whatever the subject that is.
You rank a site against each of your
criteria on a simple one to five scale,
nothing very complicated.
And you even use automated
tools where possible.
So for example, when I was doing,
I think it was usability or
one of my factors included performance.
So I just use GTmetrix to get
a performance figure out there,
and then I write a tiny few lines
of recommendations for each one.
So that it feels a bit more personal, and
I spend no more than 30 minutes on
each of these things, filling them in.
It's really fast and furious, you don't
need to review every site on your list.
You can even review only the ones that
specifically asked you for a review, or
you could choose to
review a cross section.
You can put as much or
as little time into this as you want,
but this is what people really love,
which is league tables, right.
Where you publish how different
sites performed against one another.
Everybody wants to know how they're
doing compared to everybody else.
So this is why I really think
this is although optional,
is a really good thing
to put in the report.
Because if you could say there is
a league table where your website is
compared to your competitors in
the report, they will wanna know.
They will wanna download that, so
it's a good one for getting downloads.